docs: refactor and rewrite (#171)
web-fragments/web-fragments: docs/src/pages/documentation/location-and-history.md

---
title: "Shared Location API and History API"
layout: "~/layouts/MarkdownLayout.astro"
---

_Last updated_: March 17, 2025

## Web fragments and browser location and history

> One of the `UX` benefits of `Web-Fragments` as opposed to other composability patterns and technologies, is the ability of a `web-fragment`to share the browser's location and history, depending on whether they're bound or unbound.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the user experience benefits of Web Fragments as opposed to other composability patterns and technologies, is the ability of a web fragment  provide consistent and intuitive browser navigation experience.

This is achieved by enabling the internal routing of a web fragment to share the browser location and history with the top level application. This is sharing is transparent to the application running as a web fragment, and it works in spite of the fragment running in a separate execution context.
```

### Bound web-fragment

> By default, all fragments are bound. This means that internal routing in a fragment shares the browser location and it is represented in the URL bar of the browser. When navigating internally, then, the URL bar will be bound to the navigation taking place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, all Web Fragments are bound fragments. We call them bound because their `window.location` and browser history management is bound to that of the top level app.

When a navigation occurs from within a fragment, it is reflected in the browser's address bar and history. Conversely,  hitting the browser back and forward buttons will also change the internal route of the fragment.
```

> This also means that hitting the back and forward button of the browser, will also change the internal route of the fragment, accordingly. This is an unprecedented UX optimization that can only happen because bound web fragments, share the navigation history with the shell application that hosts them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

A bound web-fragment only needs an id, to be embedded.

```html

> <web-fragment fragment-id="my-unbound-fragment-id" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<web-fragment fragment-id="my-bound-fragment-id"></web-fragment>
```

```

### Unbound web-fragment

However, it may be the case that a web-fragment may not need to share the location with the hosting shell. You can think of a payment application use-case, where after payment completed, the user is redirected to a new screen that describes the success or failure. You may not want that instance to change the URL of the browser or be accessible via the History API.

> An unbound fragment, needs an additional attribute, to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An unbound fragment needs to have it's initial location set via the `src` attribute.
```

```html
<web-fragment fragment-id="my-unbound-fragment-id" src="/my-unbound-fragment-source" />
```

> The `src` should map to the route or page in the `web-fragment` endpoint application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The location provided via this attribute will be used to fetch the initial html of the fragment, as well as initializing the `window.location` within the fragment.
This location should match the `routePatterns` of the fragment registration within the fragment gateway.
```
